Tags: #LevelDesign #GameDesign #Courses #TypesOfGamesInLevelDesign #Platform #BasicMechanics #Jumping #Movement #GridDesign #Grid 

# Jumping

### Jump Height:
Refers to how high the player can jump (leaving aside the modifiers).

### Jump Distance:
Jump distance refers to how far a player's jump can take them on the horizontal axis.

### Air Control:
Air control refers to how much control the player has over their horizontal movement while in the air. Can they change direction and if so how much? Some games don't allow players control over their character while in the air

### Height Control:
Height control refers to how much ability the players has to adjust the height of their jump. Some common examples include holding the jump button to produce a higher jump or tapping jump again while in the air to perform a double jump. Some Mario games reduce the failing speed if you hold the jump button.

# Movement

### Speed:
- How fast does the player move? 
- Does their momentum while moving translate into momentum while jumping?

### Acceleration:
- Can the player accelerate getting faster over time? 
- Are there certain parts of the level that can only be crossed if the player is moving at certain speed?

### Run Mechanics:
- Is there a difference between walking and running?
- Does the player have control over which one to use?

### Movement Modifiers:
- Are there other movement states besides walking or running? 
- Can the player swing from vines? 
- Can they swim or fly? 
- What are the movement options available to them in these states? 
- How are the other variables affected when moving in these new states?

# Grid-based Design
Design using a grid its an essential tool when making platforming levels. Its help to keep the mechanics balanced and easy to understand for both designers and players.

- How many tiles is the height of a typical jump?
- How many tiles is the horizontal distance of a jump?
- How tall is the character on the grid?
- How many tiles per second does the player move at when walking? And when running?

