 #LevelDesign #GameDesign #Courses #TypesOfGamesInLevelDesign #Strategy
A strategy game is a contests of decision-making where the players have enough information to make a decision or series of decisions, but not much information that there's a clear and correct answer to a given situation.

### Skill Set
The players compete using their skill on how are their decision-making, planning, situational awareness and multi-task since their need to consider multiple areas to play at once. This is sometimes referred to as the “attention economy.”

### Scale and perspective
Strategy games normally take place at a scale where the player has a birds eye view of the map with wider field of view, allowing it to control various units and buildings. Some games has "fog of war" mechanics, so the player can only see areas explored by their units or on "control" of him, while the enemy troops are obscured by it.
#### Gameplay
 Strategy games tend to give each player a roughly equal chance of winning —each player should be able to amass and control a roughly equivalent force of units and resources. The various game pieces a player controls are often referred to as their faction.

#### Conflict 
From the definition, the strategy games have conflict between players/AIs. 

#### Mastery
Strategy games emphasize the player's understanding of their faction abilities and the abilities of the opponents faction.
#### Mind games 
A player in a strategy game must also anticipate their opponent’s strategy and find ways to counter it.