Tags: #Art #ColorTheory #LevelDesign #GameDesign #Courses #Red  #PrimaryColor


- Its 1 of 3 Primary Color
- Grabs Attention

### Positive:
 - Love
 - Energy
 - Strength
 - Physical Courage
 - Excitement

### Negative:
- Anger
- Defiance
- Aggression
- Danger

# What Represents
_"The purpose of using red is so that the player feel something at that specific point where either it's one of the positive or the negative effects"_

- **Energy:**  Boosts physical energy levels, increase heart rate and blood pressure
- **Action:** Fast moving and promotes a need for quick action and movement
- **Desire:** Relates to the physical desire in all forms (sexual, lust, etc.)
- **Passion:*** Relates to a passionate belief in an issue or situation. Can be love-hate or anger

# How it Effects Us
- **Stimulating:** In physical sense, it can be sexual or physical appetite.
- **Exciting and Motivating:** Excites us in our very emotions, inspires a call to action. Example: Red borders to alert the player that he is in danger
- **Attention-Getting:** Forces us to take notice, alerting of danger. 
- **Assertive and Aggressive:** When a lot of red is introduced, is has a way of making individuals more aggressive and prone to hostile behavior

# Variations

<mark style="background: #800000;">Maron:</mark>  Dark bluish red, references of control and more thoughtful action

<mark style="background: #ee273a;">Scarlet:</mark> Little mix of Orange. Enthusiastic and optimistic

<mark style="background: #b80e0b;">Crimson:</mark> Little mix of Blue. Determined to success without upsetting anyone. More sensuality than sexuality

<mark style="background: #810020;">Burgundy:</mark> Dark Purplish Red. More sophisticated and serious. Control and power, determined ambition.





