Tags:  #Art #ColorTheory #LevelDesign #GameDesign #Courses #Blue #PrimaryColor


- Its 1 of 3 Primary Color
- Most popular color
- Essentially Soothing
- Strong Communicator

### Positive:
- Intelligence
- Communication
- Trust
- Serenity
- Coolness
### Negative:
- Coldness
- Aloofness
- Emotionless
- Unfriendliness

# What Represents
_"This is great for those scenes in a video game where it's a one on one moment and it's real climatic situation where someone's about to explain their deepest darkest secret, or their deepest regret or honest. Blue would be a great way in order to really drive home what evidences of what's being said."_

- **Communication:**  One on one communication and self expression
- **Peace and Calm:** Deeper shades relate to our inner calmness
- **Honesty:** Color of truth
- **Authority:*** Darker shade equals more authority
- **Religion:** Color of devotion and religious study
- **Wisdom:** Enhances intellect

# How it Effects Us
- **Conservative:** Safe color, most universally liked
- **Predictable:** Blue does not emit an impulsive or spontaneous behavior.
- **Orderly:** Give us direction, and order 
- **Rigid:** Gives a sense of familiarity. Does not like change and does things a certain way.
- **Sadness:** Some shades of blue give us a sense of deep emotional sadness
- **Assertive and Aggressive:** When a lot of red is introduced, is has a way of making individuals more aggressive and prone to hostile behavior

# Variations

<mark style="background: #afeeee;">Pale Blue:</mark>  This color inspires creativity and freedom to server any bonds

<mark style="background: #95c7d8;">Sky Blue:</mark>  Inspires selfless love and fidelity. Promotes a helpful nature that strives to overcome any obstacles

<mark style="background: #01008c;">Dark Blue:</mark> The conservative color. The color of non-emotional worry and repressed inner feelings. A strong masculine color which represents knowledge power and integrity.

<mark style="background: #017fff;">Azure Blue:</mark> The color of true content. Inspires determination and ambition to achieve and strive for goals.



