Tags: #Art #ColorTheory #LevelDesign #GameDesign #Courses #Purple #SecondaryColor

- Its a secondary color
-  Combination of balance in blue and the energy in red
- Too much can lead to introspection
- The wrong tone communicates something inexpensive and ugly
### Positive:
- Psychic
- Magical
- Mystery
- Fantasy
- Futuristic
### Negative:
- Corrupt
- Immaturity
- Impractical
- Pompous
- Social Climber

# What Represents
_"Positive and negative effects are very opposite of what they both are ... So that's why when it comes to purple using the right shades and tones is extremely important to showcase
exactly what you want your player to feel and what it what you want your objects represent."_

- **Inspiration:** Original and logical ideas are created with violet. The color spurs the creative juices to flow. Great for brainstorming
- **Individuality:** Its is an unconventional color, original to in concept. Does not like emulation and enjoys doing its own thing
- **Spirituality:** It can assist the spiritual aspects such as prayer or meditation. Grants greater access to our deeper subconscious. Negatively, it can be used for cults
- **Decay:** It can also represent something that is dying or very toxic and must be avoided
# How it Effects Us
- **Empathy:** Compassion, kindness and, love are all traits that are shown through this color
- **Cynical:** This color can be skeptical at times
- **Respectable:** Darker shades of this color represents royalty and wealth dating back decades
- **Impractical:** This color creates a sense of imagination, that clouds what reality truly is, not what it imagines it to be.
- **Immature:** Can encourage a fantasy life that is unrealistic in society
- **Mystical:** Creates a sense of mystery and awe when paired with darker shades
# Variations

<mark style="background: #a9a1d0;">Lavender:</mark>  Light purple color, that is associated with beautiful objects

<mark style="background: #ddc3e1;">Lilac:</mark>  This color implies immaturity, superficiality and youthfulness. Extrovert and enthusiastic

<mark style="background: #9965cd;">Amethyst:</mark> The mystical shade of purple. It represents a heightened sense of magic. Crystals, witches and mages...

<mark style="background: #420d53;">Deep Purple:</mark> Related directly to higher spiritual enlightenment. It also indicates arrogance and ruthlessness. Cult masters and high priests...

<mark style="background: #430436;">Plum:</mark> Reddish purple hue. Old fashion as in family traditions. Color closed minded attitude and views




